gwt/gwt-method-inject/README.md, before:

# Gwt Method Injector
 
Provides a GWT compiler override to swap out any method 
call in the app with arbitrarily generated or selected expression statements.

These magic method injections *only* work in production mode.  
The code inside the method is run as-is in gwt-dev and pure JREs.

## Usage

* Inherit com.google.gwt.MagicMethods
* Create a generator that implements MagicMethodGenerator
* Define a custom property mapping the method to inject with its generator  
 *   &lt;extend-configuration-property name="gwt.magic.methods"  
    value="some.method.to.replace.Class.method(Ljsni/param/Types;)Ljsni/returnType *= an.implementation.of.MagicMethodTestGenerator"/>

If you do not want to use an instance implementing the generator type,  
you may append ::staticMethodName at end of the class after *=  
Example: some.package.Type.method()I *= some.package.Class::staticMethodName,  
which replaces Type.method() with whatever is generated by Class.staticMethodName.  
Note the type signature of staticMethodName must match MagicMethodGenerator.injectMagic.

## More Details
See the [MagicMethodGenerator]
(src/main/java/com/google/gwt/dev/jjs/MagicMethodGenerator.java) 
and the [UnifyAstListener] (src/main/java/com/google/gwt/dev/jjs/UnifyAstListener.java)
interfaces for details.

Note that you must put the jar containing this code above gwt-dev on the classpath.

For automated testing, you may want to inherit net.wetheinter:xapi-gwt-test,
which overrides JUnitShell to allow us to reorder the classpath.

Commit message:

GWT Reflection and Magic Method Injection

gwt/gwt-method-inject/README.md, after:

# Gwt Method Injector
 
Provides a GWT compiler override to swap out any method 
call in the app with arbitrarily generated or selected expression statements.

These magic method injections *only* work in production mode.  
The code inside the method is run as-is in gwt-dev and pure JREs.

## Usage

* Inherit com.google.gwt.MagicMethods
* Create a generator that implements MagicMethodGenerator
* Define a custom property mapping the method to inject with its generator  
 *   &lt;extend-configuration-property name="gwt.magic.methods"  
    value="some.method.to.replace.Class.method(Ljsni/param/Types;)Ljsni/returnType *= an.implementation.of.MagicMethodTestGenerator"/>

If you do not want to use an instance implementing the generator type,  
you may append ::staticMethodName at end of the class after *=  
Example: some.package.Type.method()I *= some.package.Class::staticMethodName,  
which replaces Type.method() with whatever is generated by Class.staticMethodName.  
Note the type signature of staticMethodName must match MagicMethodGenerator.injectMagic.

## More Details
See the [MagicMethodGenerator]
(src/main/java/com/google/gwt/dev/jjs/MagicMethodGenerator.java) 
and the [UnifyAstListener] (src/main/java/com/google/gwt/dev/jjs/UnifyAstListener.java)
interfaces for details.

The [GWT Reflection API](../gwt-reflect) makes extensive use of magic method injection.
